---
layout: single
title: Phys 7B - Spring 2020
permalink: /7B/
author_profile: true
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents"
---

# Announcements

- Welcome to the webpage for discussion/lab sections 105 + 109!

- Please fill out the introduction survey: [Section 105](link105), [Section 109](link109) 


# General


**Time + Location:**
- 105: 4-6 PM, Monday (LC 245, Lab) and Wednesday (LC 200, Discussion)
- 109: 12-2 PM, Tuesday (LC 245, Lab) and Thursday (LC 226, Discussion)

**Recommended textbook:** "Physics" by Resnick, Halliday, Krane
*(5e has better problem layout than 4e, but both are good. NOTE: not "Fundamentals of Physics" by Halliday, Resnick, Walker)*

The primary goal of the discussion sections is to develop your problem-solving skills, and each will be split roughly in half. In the first half I'll walk through problems on the board, and possibly review material from lecture or present a different perspective on it. For the second half I'll provide a set of problems you can work on in small groups, while I float around the classroom to help. 

Section problems will be posted here at the start of the week, and their solutions at the end of the week. My go-to source of problems will be from the recommended textbook ("RHK")  -- the difficulty is intended to be similar to what appears on the exams. I will upload recommended readings from the 5th edition of it (and maybe other sources) here as well. 


# Readings, problems, solutions

## Week 1: Temperature and thermal expansion

**Reading:** [RHK Chapter 21](../7B/RHK21.pdf) 21.1 - 21.4


## Week 2: Ideal gases - equation of state, kinetic theory, work, internal energy

**Reading:** [RHK Chapter 21](../7B/RHK21.pdf) 21.5,  [RHK Chapter 22](../7B/RHK22.pdf) 22.1 -22.4,  [RHK Chapter 23](../7B/RHK23.pdf) 23.5-23.6


## Week 3: Heat and the First Law

**Reading:** [RHK Chapter 23](../7B/RHK23.pdf) 


## Week 4: Entropy and the Second Law

**<span style="color: #E43E4C;">Lab 1:</span>** Heat engine (Monday / Tuesday)

**Reading:** [RHK Chapter 24](../7B/RHK24.pdf) 24.1-24.8; I may also provide my own notes (in-progress). 


## Week 5: Electric charge and fields, review of thermodynamics



## Week 6: Gauss' Law

**<span style="color: #E43E4C;">Midterm 1:</span>** Monday Feb 24th, 7-9 PM. I'll do review on Thursday (Feb 20) for Section 109, and on Monday (Feb 24) for Section 105, each during the usual discussion time. 